Essay          

As a child I had always been fascinated by the moon, stars and planets. This fascination first arose as I watched my grandfather work in ISRO, I loved to think about what was beyond the reach of humans. At the age of 7, I visited New Zealand. At the top of the mountain Mt. Cook I went stargazing. This solidified my interest astrophysics. I always loved coming up with theories about the universe, and the lockdown this year gave me ample of time to not only speculate but also discuss some of these theories with my grandfather. I am pulled to the subject like gravity. Covid-19 had a violent impact on students, teachers and parents all around the globe, as homes were turned into an online classroom overnight, students were forced into not only finding the right physical environment, but also finding the right mental state to be able to attend school in their homes. I had to adapt. As exams were cancelled assignment submission became the number one priority and in order to be able to meet all the deadlines that were set, time management became crucial. As I learnt how to manage time I not only became more flexible as a student, but also as an individual. During online school there was never a scarcity of distractions, but I had to overcome the temptations for my own betterment. This in addition to maintaining a time table has disciplined me. I never really was an empathetic individual, however watching the people around me suffer for things beyond their control has opened my eyes. The suffering all around me has sensitized me, it has taught me to be empathetic to people. It has also given me a more positive outlook on life, as I saw people recover from situations through sheer willpower, where I thought all hope was lost. As all of the classes I attended became online, physical activity also became vital, else it would be my health that suffered. I did not have time to exercise, I had to make time to keep myself healthy, this process moved me out of my comfort zone. Ironically it made me comfortable not being in my comfort zone. 9th standard is a significant year in a student’s life. I knew that walking into it, however this made it all the more important for me to remain healthy. I could not afford to miss out on my academics, not this year. As Covid-19 ran rampant in the streets I had to take precautions. Not only the necessary ones, but also extra precautions so as to reduce my risk to exposure as much as possible. 2020 has been a tough year and I intend on making good on the saying “what doesn’t kill you makes stronger”. I intend on taking all of the problems I face as challenges meant to better myself as both a student and a human being. This year taught me how important even the smallest of things can be and this has further influenced me to dedicate myself to my studies in order to become the person I always dreamt of being. A responsible, smart and empathetic individual. I will use all of the qualities I have instilled in myself throughout this year to become a model student. During this pandemic I saw Charles Darwin’s argument come to life. “Those communities which included the greatest number of the most sympathetic members would flourish best” he quoted in his book “On the Origin of Species”. This pandemic has taught me that human beings as a species united will overcome any and all challenges they face come what may. I would love to be a part of the Brown pre-college community as Brown university is known for working on subjects that will have a real-world impact. That is the kind of work I have always dreamed and aspired of doing. During my journey in the Brown pre-college community I aim to not only expand the knowledge of my chosen subject further under the tutelage of the esteemed professors at Brown university, but also get an experience of what working to bring a positive change in the world feels like. 


